---
title: "Rest in Peace, Cuba"
layout: post
tags: [human-condition]
date: 2022-09-11 21:45:00
---

## Not loved, yet missed. RIP Cuba, 1953-2016

I suppose this post is a bit of a rant, about the incredible depths that corruption can take in humanity, exemplified with Cuba. At this point I would consider Cuba to **not exist anymore as a nation**.

If under Castro I had the impression that in some ways the nation Cuba still considered its citizens as an aspect that needs to be taken care of, at this point Cuba looks like those in power would prefer its inhabitants to be dead and gone. While Cuba has been deteriorating for quite some time, it seems that once Fidel Castro was dead and especially in these past years of pandemic and global uncertainty, the process has rapidly accelerated.

## A collapsed health system

Right now, the Dengue fever is ravaging the country, but the hospitals which already under the pandemic had shown that they are not capable to support their communities are unable to help. Everything is missing, from Paracetamols to markers to obtain info which Dengue strain is playing out. Doctors now only do work for favours, ideally things like food (because even if you have money, you might actually not be able to spend it). My wife remembers times when she was a kid, when health officials would come to the homes and fulmigate and inform the people where mosquitoes thrive, making sure that water tanks are closed and things like that. All this is no more.

## Corruption at the very top

To this very day I'm unclear about why institutions like the EU would give a lot of money to regimes loke the one in Cuba. Two mechanism I could imagine playing out here:

* Certain individuals with the power to directing EU money profit individually from money transfers
* The EU as such profits by giving money to projects that will involve EU-centered companies. The regime takes a cut and local economy profits by that what flows back.

Either way, most people probably wouldn't call this corruption but a modern form of colonialism, or leverage - the effect nonetheless is that the EU is not in the business of exporting any sort of shared values or the propagation of democracy or anything like that. No, it directly supports failed states like Cuba.

## Corruption at the very bottom

Here we talk of stories heard first-hand. Cubans can send goods back home through a container and there are certain rules around that. What happened with the last one? The people at customs ripped open all the boxes and basically "decommissioned" (ie stole) property of the many Cubans that had sent things to their kin in need of basic stuff they can't obtain in Cuba, like Paracetamol or a frying pan. They took what they felt like taking, about 15-20% of the whole cargo, making a huge mess in the process. We also lost about 4 boxes out of the 9 we sent. This is Cuban people stealing from their fellow citizens because they're protected by those who have the power to beat anybody to crap who calls for rule of law. If you're looking at the end state of a Kleptocracy - that's how it looked like.

Many, many years ago I heard the song [Reconciliación](https://genius.com/Afro-cuban-all-stars-reconciliacion-lyrics) by the Afro-CUban All Stars. Back then I thought it is possible. But now, I cannot beieve in it anymore. The wounds that are being inflicted right now will take a long, long time to heal.

## The Exodus is in full swing and the old people bite the grass

It pains me to see all of this in first-hand experiences. 