---
title: "MS ASP.NET MVC Certification course vs ASP.NET core"
layout: post
tags: [web,programming,dotnet]
date: 2017-07-29 21:38:46
---

When you do the MS exams to become a cerified developer you may come across the 486 course. The [supporting video][1] for that is 4 years old and based on MVC 4. This post will keep just a few notes as to whether the info in there still holds up in the light of .NET Core. The code is [checked in][2], the commits more or less follow the progress made in the videos on channel 9.

### Video 1 - Introduction

To get ourselves an mvc app we can do

```bash
dotnet new web
dotnet add package Microsoft.AspnetCore.Mvc
dotnet add package Microsoft.AspnetCore.StaticFiles
```
I deliberately started fom an _empty_ web project, because I am a purist like that. You could also do `dotnet new mvc` and have a ton of stuff and an application that can run. To be honest, what put me off where the bower references. I am not going to start getting aquainted with bower at this point int time.

Anyhow, you can hook up the MVC functionality yourself into the basic web application startup:

```csharp
services.AddMvc(); //In "ConfigureServices"
...
app.UseStaticFiles();
app.UseMvc(routes =>
{
    routes.MapRoute(
        name: "default",
        template: "{controller=Home}/{action=Index}/{id?}");
}); // In "Configure"
```

Then we need

* __Controllers__ and __Views__ folders
* A __HomeController__, an __Index__ view, maybe a __Layout__

and off you go. So far, pretty much the same stuff.


### Video 2 - Models

OMG, Entity Framework, really now?

Oh well, I said I would follow along, so here we go:

```bash
dotnet add package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer
```

Now we wire up tha database stuff on Startup...

```csharp
// In "ConfigureServices"
services.AddDbContext<ConferenceContext>(opt => opt.UseSqlServer(
  "Server=(localdb)\\mssqllocaldb;Database=Conferences;" +
  "Trusted_Connection=True;MultipleActiveResultSets=true"));
```
That local db file will btw end up in your user directory (i.e. ~), I was too lazy to parse through changing the default, 
so I stuck with it (With frameworks & dependencies like that, just go with the flow, you will thank me when you have time
to go have drinks on the weekend)

The ConferenceContext is [over here][3], then there is some initialization code, [hand-written][4]. I didn't find that
fancy __DropCreateAlwaysDatabaseInitializer__ thing mentioned in the video, but this is about MVC, not EF, so I didn't search very hard. The initializer will do fine, I'm sure. We call it in Startup's `Configure`:

```csharp
public void Configure(..., ConferenceContext dbContext)
{
    if (env.IsDevelopment())
    {
        app.UseDeveloperExceptionPage();
        DbInitializer.Initialize(dbContext);
    }
}
```
By configuring the EF stuff into the in-built DI Container, we could just let the framework provide us with a db Context.
You will often see in the videos that the context gets instantiated in the controllers. You won't need to do that anymore. If you want to know more about EF on .NET Core, [this page][5] is a good starting point.

The `ComponentModel` namespace is around, so you can attribute your models like crazy, just like in the video.

### Video 3- Controllers

All still basically the same stuff. There is now also an `IActionResult` interface if you want to implemen the Action Result yourself completely. Also the action / controller filters have more options to choose from...

* Auth filters - user authorisation
* Resource filters - Caching etc.
* Action filters - run code before / after
* Exception filters - as the name implies
* Result filters - only when the wrapped action runs successfully

There are also async variants, it is all nicely explained [over here][6].

Global filters are added in the __Startup__ through the options object that you get when calling the corresponding overload of `services.AddMvc();` inside `ConfigureServices`. 

### Video 4- Views

Html Helpers are still around, but what you may probably do these days is using the new [Tag Helpers][7] to write out such a form. This is looking somewhat like that:

```html
<form asp-action="Create">
    <div asp-validation-summary="All"></div>
    <div class="row">
        <div class="one column">
          <label asp-for="Name"></label>
          <span asp-validation-for="Name"></span>
        </div>
        <div class="eight columns">
          <input asp-for="Name" />
        </div>
    </div>
    ...
```
The last commit introduces some custom layout tag helpers to test out the feature.

__Partial Views__ seem more or less unchanged.

### Video 5 - Javascript, Page updates etc.

There has been so much change with regard to how to do & use javascript for UIs in general and ASP.NET MVC in particular lately that I am not going into much detail here. You can still return partial views, but e.g. the Ajax helper you see in the video does not seem to be around.

Bundling and minification also seems [to be supported][8] as a build step rather than a runtime step. These days you may do this with a tool like [webpack][9] anyway, so there isn't much need to do this via Visual Studio. Also, all that nice javascript out there isn't made available via Nuget anymore but you'll rather have to go to npm. Additionally, jQuery just isn't as important anymore.

### Video 6 - Web APIs.

Quite a few changes over here as well. Web API got folded into the ASP.NET Core effort. Apparently there is a [compatibility shim][10] to smooth migration of an existing application. But, if you start from scratch, my repo contains a minimal example of getting all Sessions or Speakers, together with content negotation.

Out of the box you only get support for json. For xml e.g. you need to 

```bash
dotnet add package Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.Formatters.Xml
```

And then in `Startup.ConfigureServices`

```csharp
services.AddMvc(opts =>
{
  opts.OutputFormatters.Add(new XmlSerializerOutputFormatter());
});
```
Then, a simple controller which inherits from Controller, just like the MVC ones:

```csharp
[Route("api/[controller]/[action]")]
public class DataController : Controller
{
    private readonly ConferenceContext _ctx;
    public DataController(ConferenceContext ctx) => _ctx = ctx;

    [HttpGet]
    public IEnumerable<Session> Sessions() => _ctx.Sessions.ToList();

    [HttpGet]
    public IEnumerable<Speaker> Speakers() => _ctx.Speakers.ToList();
}
```

Now, e.g. with curl you can make calls with the proper accept header:

```bash
curl localhost:5000/api/data/speakers -v -H "Accept: application/xml"
```

And, presto, api with content negotiation.


[1]: https://channel9.msdn.com/Series/Dev-ASP-MVC4-WebApps/01y
[2]: https://github.com/flq/MS486Core
[3]: https://github.com/flq/MS486Core/blob/master/Database/ConferenceContext.cs
[4]: https://github.com/flq/MS486Core/blob/master/Database/DbInitializer.cs
[5]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/data/ef-mvc/intro
[6]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/mvc/controllers/filters
[7]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/mvc/views/tag-helpers/intro
[8]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/client-side/bundling-and-minification
[9]: https://webpack.github.io/
[10]: https://stackify.com/asp-net-core-web-api-guide/